# CPU Bursting

CPU bursting is a feature of SmartOS that allows hosted web applications
in a zone to temporarily use more CPU cycles than is allocated to a
virtual machine, providing a temporary performance boost.

## Baseline vs. Cap

Virtual machines running SmartOS have a flexible and inflexible number
of CPU cycles available at any time: baseline and cap. The CPU cap is
the maximum amount of CPU cycles available to a virtual machine at any
given time. The CPU baseline is a percentage of the CPU cap andÂ is the
number of CPU cycles available to it without the need to burst. When a
hosted web application experiences a high volume of throughput, the
virtual machine hosting the application can use CPU bursting to consume
CPU cycles that exceed the baseline limit for a short period of time.

![CPU Baseline](attachments/756163/1146957.png)

The amount a virtual machine can burst depends on how much of the CPU
resource pool is available. If only a single virtual machine in a
datacenter needs to burst, it can use as many CPU cycles as is needed
(up to the cap limit). If multiple virtual machines in a datacenter need
to burst at the same time, they will share available cycles in the
resource pool.

The amount of time a virtual machine can burst is set as a property in
the global zone. If a virtual machine continues to burst past the
allocated time limit, the CPU cap for that virtual machine is
temporarily reduced to the value of the CPU baseline, effectively
disabling bursting.

![Temporary CPU Cap](attachments/756163/1146958.png)

When an application is placed in a reduced cap state for bursting too
long, a timer begins to countdown that determines how long the
application remains in a reduced cap state. The CPU cap is reset to the
original value and bursting is re-enabled once the timer counts down to
zero. The amount of time a virtual machine must stay in a reduced CPU
cap state is also set as a property in the global zone.
