# SmartOS Logo Usage Guidelines

We permit the use of the "SmartOS" logos presented above (collectively
or individually "Logo") subject to the following terms and conditions:

1. The Logo may only be used to truthfully indicate that your software
was created using Joyent's SmartOs open source code or that your website
otherwise relates to Joyent's SmartOS open source code (such as a blog
or discussion group).

2. The Logo may only be used in the exact form as provided by Joyent,
without any alteration except for sizing.

3. The Logo may not be used in a way that makes it more prominent than
those of your own name and logo on your printed materials, website or
any other content.

4. The Logo may not be used in a way that would, in Joyent's sole
opinion, imply any type of endorsement or sponsorship by Joyent or
relationship or association with Joyent.

5. The Logo may not be used in a way that is, in Joyent's sole opinion,
confusingly similar to your name and logo.

6. The Logo may not be used in a manner that is harmful, deceptive,
obscene or otherwise objectionable, in Joyent's sole opinion.

7. The Logo may not be used in a manner that, in Joyent's sole opinion,
disparages Joyent or its products and services.

8. The Logo may only be used on materials that are in compliance with
all applicable laws and governmental regulations.

9. The Logo may not be used on websites that promote or contain content
pertaining to pornography, gambling, and illegal activities.

10. The Logo should not be used with either the ® or the ™ attribution
symbols.

11. You may not attempt to obtain legal rights in the Logo (in its exac
t
form or in a form that may be confusingly similar), whether by trademark
registration, domain name registration, or otherwise.

12. YOUR USE OF THE LOGO IS AT YOUR OWN RISK.  THE LOGO IS PROVIDED "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. JOYENT MAKES NO WARRANTIES WHETHER
EXPRESSED, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY REGARDING OR RELATING TO THE LOGO. TO
THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED UNDER APPLICABLE LAW, JOYENT SPECIFICALLY
DISCLAIMS ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT AND OWNERSHIP WITH RESPECT TO THE
LOGO.

13. IN NO EVENT SHALL JOYENT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ANY DIRECT OR INDIRECT
DAMAGES PURSUANT TO YOUR USE OF THE LOGO INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION,
LOSS OF PROFITS, LOSS OF USE, OR FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND EVEN IF JOYENT HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
